[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 8]
I'll definitely knock on the door
next time.
B-Because
when Zhacuo told me,
I was wondering.
I said
your family rules were quite strange.
-If bad guys want to come in…
-What are you doing here?
To bring you photos.
I didn't take any photos.
I took candid shots in the mountains.
Just got them developed.
Thanks.
You can leave now.
What's wrong?
Not all of them are yours.
Before taking them,
you didn't even tell me.
My hair was all messy.
Because it's candid,
that's how it is.
It's more natural.
They turned out well.
Thanks.
Bye.
What now?
I-I'd like some water.
I'm thirsty.
Thanks.
It's empty.
Are all these
from patients to your mom?
In Mazhi County,
my mom's patients are everywhere.
These are just from the last two years.
In my mom's cabinet,
there are many more.
This is you, isn't it?
Isn't it?
Look.
It's nice to have a big family.
Which one are you again?
The third.
Who are these?
Relatives?
Careful.
Also my parents.
Don't look like them.
Obviously.
Because they are not
the same people at all.
These were my birth parents.
Also border aid doctors.
Later,
they died in an accident.
I'm sorry.
Sorry.
When are you leaving?
The water is a bit hot.
I'll leave after I finish it.
I mean,
how long will you stay
with the Mountain Patrol?
I'll leave after I finish my report.
My unit has a rule.
Housing is only allocated upon marriage.
So right now,
I live with my parents.
My dad
is in the Animal Husbandry Department.
My mom is in the Cultural Department.
Alright, alright.
I'm not a census officer.
I'm not questioning you
about your background.
Yeah, you're not.
We're just chatting.
My mom works at the Cultural Department.
But she's not a writer
a painter, or anything.
She works in an office,
in HR.
I used to go there all the time as a kid.
Has anyone ever told you
that you talk a lot?
Actually, yes.
A lot of people say that.
A-And a lot of people
think I'm a really nice guy,
very enthusiastic.
You must have felt it too,
right? Right?
But I think
it's just my job.
I can't let the conversation drop.
I can't let there be dead air.
See? We haven't had
any awkward silences, have we?
I've definitely felt it.
Finish your drink and go.
My mom will be back soon.
Okay.
Alright.
I won't see you out then.
Bye.
What are you looking at now?
I've been in Mazhi for so long,
and there's something
I've been wondering about.
Today I've finally figured out what it is.
What?
What is it?
Your county...
doesn't have any trees.
Not a single one.
I've been in Mazhi for so long,
but I didn't see a single tree.
Not in town,
not in the pasture,
not even in Bolamula.
But right here in your yard,
there's this huge tree.
Even though the leaves are gone,
it still looks
very healthy.
Really.
This tree...
is so big!
Who's come for our tree again?
Auntie.
Mom.
-We have a guest?
-Auntie.
No, he's a colleague.
He just dropped something off.
He's leaving now. Go on.
A colleague?
From the Public Security Bureau
or the Mountain Patrol?
-Neither.
Auntie,
I'm Shao Yunfei,
a reporter
from the "Western Evening News."
I'm here to interview Officer Bai
and the Mountain Patrol.
Yes, that's right.
And he's leaving now.
No wonder.
You're so fair-skinned.
Since you're here,
stay for dinner.
-Okay.
-He won't…
Perfect.
Some herdsmen sent us some lamb.
How about making dumplings?
Do you like them?
I love them.
Mom, he has things to do.
I really like dumplings.
Really?
Auntie, let me hold the umbrella.
Eat before you go.
Let me help. Here, Auntie.
Come in.
Time for dumplings. Hurry.
Have some chili too?
Yes.
Here.
Mom.
Aren't we waiting for Bai Ji and Bai Shao?
Bai Shao is having dinner with colleagues.
She won't be back.
Bai Ji is on duty.
Later,
take some to him.
If Shao hadn't come,
I wouldn't have bothered
to make these dumplings. Here.
Exactly.
You have me to thank.
Is it to your liking?
It's delicious.
I love it.
Good.
My mom can't cook.
Since my grandmother passed away,
I've rarely had
dumplings this good.
If you like them,
you should come often.
Those young men
from the Mountain Patrol
come all the time.
Really?
Then I'll come often too.
Delicious.
Shao.
Does your newspaper
have a large circulation?
Yes, it's large.
Our newspaper office
is directly under the province.
It's a department-level institution.
We have daily news,
evening news, commercial news,
a legal newspaper, a Tibetan newspaper,
and 2 magazines.
I'm just
a reporter in a small division
of the evening news.
Then the paper consumption must be huge.
Mom, what a question.
Isn't that obvious?
Shoo.
It's huge.
Because we need paper everywhere.
Then you don't make
the paper yourselves, do you?
No.
A paper mill supplies us.
Then that mill
must be quite big too.
I've been
there.
It has several sites.
It is quite big.
They can produce
newsprint, wrapping paper,
and kraft paper.
They can make
all kinds of paper.
Do they make toilet paper?
Yes. The Tulip...
Tulip toilet paper
is made by them.
That's the one
our work unit distributed.
The quality is quite good.
Auntie, why do you ask
about this?
Could you give me
the contact info
for the paper mill?
Do you want to buy paper?
Yes.
I want to buy a batch of toilet paper.
With good quality.
And it has to be cheap.
Why do you need so much?
Doesn't the convenience store
sell it?
It's not good.
And it's not cheap.
Sure.
Don't worry, Auntie.
I'll contact
my colleague in purchasing.
I'll try to get you
a wholesale price
for a batch of paper.
Well, that'll be great.
Thank you so much.
No problem.
Here, eat.
Okay.
Eat up. Have some more.
Here.
Thanks, Auntie.
Shao.
Where is your family from?
We're from the provincial capital.
My mom is in the Cultural Department.
My dad
is in the Animal Husbandry Department.
My mom works
at the Cultural Department,
but she isn't...
She isn't a writer
or a painter.
She works in the office,
in HR.
When I was little,
I often went to their cafeteria
to eat dumplings.
None were better
than yours.
Supplies are here!
Move the stuff!
Okay!
Beer.
Wangmu,
why is there beer?
Reporter Shao is treating us.
Two bottles each.
Don't take more.
The cheapskate is actually spending money.
Come on.
I was stingy before
because I was broke.
I just got my paycheck
from the newspaper office.
I'm now the Moneybags
in the Mountain Patrol!
-Thanks, Mr. Moneybags!
Thanks, Mr. Moneybags.
Beer is weak.
You guys drink it.
Come on.
I didn't forget you.
So nice of you.
I'll go get him.
Okay.
Mom asked me to tell you
not to take these things
too seriously.
There's no need
to stop coming to the shop
because of this.
I feel bad
for letting you misunderstand
that I'm some
big shot.
It's not certain if I'll get
a permanent position in the future.
We knew long ago
that you aren't an official.
But she
kept calling me Director He.
She thought
calling you that
would sound sophisticated
and nice.
B-But because of that,
I ran up a huge tab with you.
We let you run a tab,
but not because you're an official.
It has nothing to do with
whether you have a permanent position.
Mom said
everyone is born
with debts.
If not money,
then favors.
They will be paid off,
sooner or later.
Mom said
you are
a reliable person.
Helping you is the right thing to do.
♪ On the sacred cedar's bough ♪
You write such good letters.
You always think of others
when doing things.
You never complain
about your own hardships.
♪ A young cuckoo alights now ♪
That is worthy of respect.
What about you?
How do you see me?
I don't care if you'll get
a permanent position or not.
I've always known
that you are a gentle person.
And a good person.
♪ If we had never met ♪
♪ We'd never fall in love yet ♪
Chun.
It's been a long time
since I wrote to you.
Captain Duojie has finally agreed
to let me go into the mountains.
♪ If we had never known each other ♪
After entering the mountains,
I found life
in the Uninhabited Zone
isn't much different
from what I imagined.
But there are also many things
I didn't expect.
♪ How could I bear
this lovesick torment? ♪
Is it heavy?
A little.
We picked up a reporter
♪ Amid Lhasa's bustling throng ♪
on our way into the mountains.
He's about my age.
He insisted on joining us
for his report.
He's just like me
a year ago,
♪ The Qonggyai folk
have the sweetest look ♪
completely out of place in the team.
And he talks a lot.
Normally,
I should be
nicer to him.
♪ The one who's won my heart and soul ♪
But when we were together,
I couldn't help but snap at him.
♪ Dwells among the folk of Qonggyai ♪
Since this reporter
arrived,
Han has been drinking less.
He's afraid the reporter
will write about his past poaching
in the Uninhabited Zone
in his report.
♪ On the sacred cedar's bough ♪
He always looks for a chance
to peek at his manuscript.
Zhacuo told the reporter
that back then,
he drove 10 sheep to the Mountain Patrol,
♪ A young cuckoo alights now ♪
but he didn't expect
that both he and the sheep
would have to stay.
♪ No need to say anything ♪
Like a mother hen,
the ever-worrying
He Qingyuan
is worrying even more now.
When sleeping in the Uninhabited Zone,
he even shares a blanket
with the reporter,
♪ Say one sweet word to me ♪
terrified he might be in danger.
The person who supports the reporter
staying the most
is probably Sangba.
Because finally,
there's someone
♪ On the sacred cedar's bough ♪
who can tutor him in English.
♪ A young cuckoo alights now ♪
Although I can never
bring myself to say
a word of thanks,
sometimes,
I feel like
they are my family.
♪ On the sacred cedar's bough ♪
In the boundless
Uninhabited Zone,
like stars,
we watch over each other.
Just as I know,
♪ A young cuckoo alights now ♪
at sunset,
everyone will still,
in unison,
think of Dongzhiba.
♪ No need to say anything ♪
[The 14th patrol, the third day]
So young.
When in danger,
Tibetan antelopes
won't leave their companions behind.
A lamb won't leave its mother either.
Jerk.
Get out of the car!
Squat down!
Why is there only one?
We only found him alone.
He was burying pelts
when we caught him.
An old acquaintance.
Lift your head up!
Ma Yizhong.
Why is it you again?
Tell me yourself,
how many times has it been?
Th...
Third time.
Third time?
It's been at least 5 times!
I'm keeping count!
Officer,
I just buried the pelts.
I didn't kill any sheep.
This.
He was carrying it on him.
Burying pelts with a gun?
Look at me.
Look at me!
I'll take a picture of you.
Just wait until this hits the papers.
I'll let your mother
and your family see
what kind of things you've been up to!
I didn't kill any sheep!
I didn't even fire a gun!
The boss just hired me
to do a job!
You're lying!
Don't hit him!
I didn't kill any sheep!
After burying the pelts,
where will you meet?
I... I... I...
I d-don't know.
I don't know.
Zhacuo, don't hit him!
Can you make it out of here on your own?
Tell us the location!
Are you crazy?
Tell us where!
G-Go north across the river.
Then go east.
Keep going.
There's a ravine
that blocks the wind.
How many people?
Three.
No, no, 4.
Four, including me.
What's the boss's name?
He didn't tell me his name.
All I know
is that you shot off
his finger.
Which finger?
On his right hand.
The pinky.
Dongzhiba!
Get up!
No, no!
I've told you everything!
No!
You're coming with me.
Easy.
He, let's go.
You two stay here.
Tell me,
who is the one
whose finger was shot off by you?
The one who killed Dongzhiba.
There's only one truck
and one tent.
Shouldn't be more than 5 people.
Do we arrest them tonight?
Sound travels far at night.
Before the truck gets close,
they'll hear it and run.
He,
set up the tent.
We'll go tomorrow morning.
Okay.
In this direction from the tent,
there is a slope.
Tomorrow morning,
while they are still sleeping,
we'll sneak up from here
and catch them.
Before going to sleep tonight,
everyone needs
to check their guns properly.
Okay.
Alright.
It's so cold. So cold.
You liar.
This coat isn't warm at all.
Give him back his down jacket.
No, no, don't.
No need.
My coat just got warm.
Shao.
Take this hat.
It's warmer.
This...
Loosen it a bit.
It's too tight.
Put your legs in.
Don't move!
Hands up!
The Mountain Patrol is here!
Mountain Patrol!
We are the Mountain Patrol!
Hands up! Come out!
People inside,
drop your guns!
You can't escape!
Hands up! Come out!
Get down! Quick!
Freeze!
Drop the gun!
Drop it!
What are you doing?
Drop the gun.
Are you crazy?
He already put down his gun.
What are you doing?
He Qingyuan!
Put the gun down!
Move aside!
Kill him here,
and no one will know.
I'm a police officer. I will know!
Drop the gun!
He has the blood
of Tibetan antelopes on his hands.
And Dongzhiba's blood!
This man is rotten to the core!
This is an Uninhabited Zone,
not a lawless one!
If anyone shoots,
I'll arrest them!
Drop it!
Drop the gun!
Drop the gun.
Sangba.
Captain!
Drop the gun!
Do you hear me?
Han!
Turn around!
Kneel down!
Get up!
Move!
We are different from them.
Don't forget who you are.
Move!
Move faster!
Why did you come here?
Where is Ma Yizhong?
Ma Yizhong has been tied up.
Move!
Hurry up!
The bullet has been removed.
He'll be okay after I disinfect it.
Bite this.
What is your name?
They all call you Boss.
No one knows your name.
What is your name?
I asked him earlier.
He didn't say a word.
You and Zhacuo take turns tonight.
Watch them closely.
Okay.
No need.
I'll watch.
If she wants to watch, then let her.
She doesn't trust us anyway.
Stop.
Give me the gun.
I'll keep watch here.
She wants to watch them herself.
She's a police officer.
She knows the law best.
What are we?
Handing the murderer over to the police
is how we avenge Dongzhiba.
Go to sleep.
I'll keep watch.
Cut the crap.
Give me the gun.
Go.
Who's there?
It's me, me.
Shao Yunfei.
What's wrong?
It's an old problem.
I'll be fine after taking some pills.
Why aren't you sleeping?
Do you have a headache?
No.
I'm used to the altitude.
It's just that today...
I was a bit excited.
Did you see what happened during the day?
When we camped yesterday,
I saw the Milky Way.
Those stars...
They were so beautiful.
They weren't like
stars in other places
that twinkle.
They looked like
they were fixed in the sky,
so many and so bright.
Yes.
The altitude is high here.
Without pollution,
the air is clear.
You can see more clearly.
It's a pity.
I didn't bring a tripod,
so I couldn't capture it.
The most beautiful things
should be kept in the heart.
This is why you
came here, right?
For such a beautiful land,
it's well worth
preserving.
I really don't want to do
something so difficult.
But...
In Bolamula,
there are thousands of
wild animals.
I know they are right there.
They also know
we are here.
If we don't do this,
no one will.
We have no choice.
It's fate.
Then how long do you think
you'll keep doing this?
I don't know.
I only know
I can't give up now.
Han...
Han doesn't like
me writing about him.
So, do you want me
to write in the report
about the team members'
personal experiences?
I kept you here
because I trust you.
Just write.
Everything we do here
and what you see in Bolamula—
write them all down.
Let more people know.
Then,
what about the past?
Everyone has a past.
And they make mistakes.
You've made mistakes, too?
I've made more mistakes than any of them.
You'll find out later.
It hurts again?
There's hot water in the tent.
Go drink some.
Okay.
Keep watch for me for a bit.
Call me if anything happens.